# Wordle-Solver
 
The goal of these files is to determine the optimal series of guesses in the game [Wordle](https://www.powerlanguage.co.uk/wordle/).

**The best first guess is "roate" followed closely by "raise".** I prefer the use of "raise" as a first guess because it is a potential answer while "roate" is accepted as a guess, but is not a potential answer. A full ranking of first guesses is provided in first_word_scores.csv.

## Solution Algorithm
The idea of the algorithm is to minimize the number of potential answers remaining after a given guess. For example, if your first guess was "batty" and all letters were in the correct position aside for "b" the remaining potential answers are "catty", "fatty", "patty", "ratty", and "tatty". Instead of randomly guessing through the remaining potential answers you could guess "caper" and separately identify all correct answers aside from "fatty" and "tatty". "caper" is the optimal second guess in this example because it minimizes the number of potential answers remaining.

I consider a guess optimal if it minimizes the expected number of potential answers remaining. The algorithm solves a game of Wordle by guessing optimally, updating the set of potential answers, and recalculating the optimal guess. This algorithm can solve for any word in the Wordle dictionary in five guesses or less. The median number of guesses to solve for a word is three.

## Results
There are three sets of results generated by the code.
- first_word_scores.csv: This file provides results on which word is best to guess first in a new game. This file lists in descending order the best first guesses, the expected number of potential answers remaining after the guess, and an indicator for if the guess is in the list of potential answers. "roate" has the lowest expected number of potential answers remaining (60.4). "raise" has the second lowest expected number of potential answers remaining (61). In the code "raise" is used as the first guess because "roate" is not a potential answer and the difference between the expected number of potential answers remaining is small.
- second_word_guesses.csv: This file provides results on which word is best to guess second conditional on first guessing "raise". This file lists the potential outcomes of guessing "raise", the best word to guess second, and the number of answers remaining after the first guess.
- turns_to_solve.csv: This file provides results on how many optimal guesses are needed to solve for every potential answer. The file lists in alphabetical order potential answers, the number of guesses needed to solve for that answer, and the sequence of guesses made. The maximum number of guesses needed is five. The median number of guesses is 3 and the mean is 3.5.
